

It its current form, the corpus includes 725 examples. Each example is identified with a filename adapted from the original example identifiers, which are visible on the scores accessed through each example page (E0 button). The website uses short example IDs that begin with “R” (reserve dataset) or “T” (testing dataset), followed by the example number used in Suter (1980). Complete filenames are used on the PDF generated by Sibelius during the encoding process (available on each example page). These filenames are adapted from the original naming system. For more details on how to decode Suter’s example identifiers: [PDF document with translation and the original excerpt from Suter 1980](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fzA7iakBfjbyc_Fwsnhsdmyk0lMiCAMp/view?usp=sharing). On the [browse](/browse) page, works can be sorted based on ID, title, genre/subgenre, composition year, premiere year, and publication year.

Example metadata was used in the transcription and encoding of examples. Because we opted for diplomatic transcriptions, square brackets are used for data extracted from a prior location in the score and curly brackets are used for score indications that are interpretations based on available information. Editorial comments are provided for all bracketed indications.

- Example Start, End, and Total Measures
  - Example measures numbers are extracted from the scores whenever available. For analysis purposes, pick-up measures are given a number that corresponds to the duration of the pick-up note(s) expressed as a fraction of one bar. For example, if a work with a time signature of 3/8 begins with an eighth-note pick-up, the start measure will be 0.33. Note that partial measures are included in the total measures.
  - If the example is extracted from a full unit in a score with notated measures that do not correspond with the full unit, start and end measures are provided based on the full unit, with the notated bar numbers following in parentheses.
  - Dotted bar lines are not counted unless the notated measure numbers on the score count dotted bar lines as full measures.
  - In the case of polymetric scores, smaller measures are counted, unless the notated measure numbers on the score count the larger polymetric bars as full measures.

- Example Start Time Signature, Time Signature Type, and Changing Time Signature
  - Example start time signature and time signature types use the same procedure as for the full unit start time signature and time signature type, except in the presence of changing times signature, in which case all time signatures are extracted, but only the start time signature is used as an identifier.

- Example Start Time Signature Beat, Notated Beat Rate, and Mean Beat Rate
  - Example start time signature beat, notated beat rate, and mean beat rate are determined following the same procedure as for the full unit start time signature beat, notated beat rate, and mean beat rate.
  - For analysis purposes, an interpretative time signature is provided in curly brackets for unmetered examples. The time signature is determined based on the first measure of the example. For sorting based on the time signature, unmetered examples are categorized as “none”.

- Example Start Notated Beat, Notated Beat Rate, and Mean Beat Rate
  - Example start notated beat and beat rate are determined following the same procedure as for the full unit start notated beat, except when no beat rate is provided at the start measure. In these cases, the notated beat rate corresponds to either: (1) the last beat rate notated on the score before the example start measure, provided in square brackets on the encoded score; or, (2) a calculated beat rate based on the time signature and randomly selected recording, provided in curly brackets on the encoded score. For simple and odd time signatures, the notated beat corresponds to the denominator (e.g., 2/4 = quarter note; 7/8 = eighth note); note that 3/8 was treated as a simple time signature. For compound time signatures, the notated beat corresponds to the value that represents three units of the denominator (e.g., 9/8=eighth&times;3=dotted-quarter).

- Example Start Tempo Expression
  - Tempo expressions were extracted from the first measure of the example score in their literal form; if a tempo expression is not provided at the beginning of the example, the last notated tempo expression determined to be still in effect is provided in square brackets, and the specific location where the tempo expression is found is given in the Editorial Comment.



