

## SMPC 2024, July 25&ndash;28, Banff, Canada


In addition to the above talk, Dr. Ève Poudrier will also be presenting preliminary research on the analysis of a sample of excerpts from the <em>Suter (1980) Corpus</em> using composite and coincidence rhythms in a poster titled: "Polyrhythm classification using the <em>composite</em> tool." The composite tool is the fruit of a collaboration with Craig Stuart Sapp and can be used on this website as well as on <a target="_blank" href="https://verovio.humdrum.org/?file=poly">Verovio Humdrum Viewer</a>. Full documentation for the composite filter is available at: <a target="_blank" href="https://doc.verovio.humdrum.org/filter/composite">https://doc.verovio.humdrum.org/filter/composite</a>.

### ABSTRACT

Polyrhythm can theoretically be defined as concurrent contrasting rhythms, beats or speeds, that are not readily reducible to a single metric framework built from perceptually relevant pulse streams. However, in current music-analytical practice, the simultaneous rhythms must relate to one another in a very specific manner, which is most often described as involving a ratio other than N:1, the simplest being 3:2. This practice results in a wealth of rhythmic designs that can at best be described as complex, irregular, or metrically dissonant. This study proposes classification of polyophonic excerpts based on their “composite” (sequential presentation of event onsets, where an “event” includes all the notes that have the same onset time), and “coincidence” (coinciding event onsets across parts) rhythms. Classification is performed using a stratified sample from the <em>Suter 1980 Corpus</em>, a collection of 725 short notated polyrhythmic excerpts extracted from 450 works by twenty composers from Europe and North America, 1877&ndash;1969. Excerpts were encoded in kern format and rhythmic parsing was completed using the <em>composite</em> tool on <a target="_blank" href="https://verovio.humdrum.org/?file=poly">Verovio Humdrum Viewer</a>. 

One of the advantages of the <em>composite</em> tool is that it facilitates comparison across different types of ensembles, regardless of the number of instrumental parts. Computational measures derived from composite rhythms can also be used to test the perceptual relevance of these features. While both composite and coincidence rhythms will be assessed based on rhythmic patterning, composite rhythms will also be examined based on event density ratio (relative density of contrasting strands) and saturation, while coincidence rhythms will be examined based on nested ratio (degree of coincidence across parts) and metric orientation. It is argued that measures derived from composite rhythms not only afford fine-grain characterization of rhythmic structures, but they also provide an opportunity to address issues of perceived complexity using naturalistic stimuli. Furthermore, while the tool was developed using a specific repertoire, it is not limited by musical style and could be used to investigate polyrhythms from other musical practices.



